Q2. Explain the role of the following key properties in the flexbox layout model
    1.justify-content
    2.align-items
    3.gap
    4.flex-direction
    5.flex-wrap

ANS:- 1.justify-content:- it is a sub-property of the Flexible Box Layout module.
    It defines the alignment along the main axis. It helps distribute extra free space leftover when either all the flex items on a line are inflexible, or are flexible but have reached their maximum size. It also exerts some control over the alignment of items when they overflow the line.

2.align-items:-this property defines the default behavior for how items are laid out along the cross axis (perpendicular to the main axis).
    Imagine a horizontal flexbox layout. That horizontal flow is the main axis, so align-items is the alignment opposite that, on the vertical axis. Bear in mind that changes when the main axis changes, and the cross axis changes with it.
    You can think of align-items as the justify-content version for the cross-axis (perpendicular to the main-axis).

3.Gap:-The gap property in CSS is a shorthand for row-gap and column-gap, specifying the size of gutters, which is the space between rows and columns within grid, flex, and multi-column layouts.

4.flex-direction:- this property is a sub-property of the Flexible Box Layout module. It establishes the main-axis, thus defining the direction flex items are placed in the flex container.
    The flex-direction property accepts four possible values:
    i.row: same as text direction (default)
    ii.row-reverse: opposite to text direction
    iii.column: same as row but top to bottom
    iv.column-reverse: same as row-reverse top to bottom
    Note that row and row-reverse are affected by the directionality of the flex container. If its text direction is ltr, row represents the horizontal axis oriented from left to right, and row-reverse from right to left; if the direction is rtl, it’s the opposite.

5.flex-wrap:- this property is a sub-property of the Flexible Box Layout Module. It defines whether the flex items are forced in a single line or can be flowed into multiple lines. If set to multiple lines, it also defines the cross-axis which determines the direction new lines are stacked in, aiding responsiveness layout behavior without CSS media queries.
    Initial value: nowrap
    Applies to: flex containers
    Inherited: no
    Computed value: as specified
    Animation type: discrete

    nowrap (default): single-line which may cause the container to overflow
    wrap: multi-lines, direction is defined by flex-direction
    wrap-reverse: multi-lines, opposite to direction defined by flex-direction